so I wrote this book for everyone there
was a hunger
I think to find out where
we are in the history of cancer how did
we get here
and what happens next so this book it
was my attempt to try to understand that
story to try to explain that story to
myself actually first and then to my
patients and then ultimately to everyone
um were there many promising elements
for the future I mean I think that the
we're at a really pivotal point in the
history of cancer where we have a
one of the deepest understandings in
history of what the abnormal fundamental
series of abnormalities in cancer is or
are
um the question right now is can those
can that understanding be converted into
real medicines into real treatment
paradigms
uh well I can tell you a little bit
about some particular cancers
um so uh as you know in in the Western
World the the diagnosis of cancer is
increasing dramatically uh between one
and three and one in two men and women
will be diagnosed with cancer during
their lifetimes
um but thankfully survivorship from some
cancers not all cancers is also changing
the best example probably is breast
cancer
so breast cancer the mortality of breast
cancer has decreased by about one
percent every year in the Western World
for the last 20 odd years now you might
say one percent is not very large but
over the course of 20 odd years that has
come amounted to about a 20 decrease in
breast cancer mortality and that's a
that's a very significant impact other
cancers you know have been very
difficult pancreatic cancer has really
not changed in the way we haven't
changed very much in the way we treat
pancreatic cancer for decades although
now there are new medicines finally
coming out a new preventative mechanisms
coming out for pancreatic cancer as well
simplest explanation is that cancers are
a distorted version of stem cells
stem cells have a capacity to renew
themselves
and cancer has a capacity renew itself
so the questions that we ask are
questions like what are the parallels
then between the renewal of cancer cells
and the renewal of stem cells and can
you exploit this understanding can you
base your based on your understanding of
stem cells can you find new treatments
for Cancers and in particular we focus
on blood cancer because blood stem cells
are the best understood of all stem
cells